---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Essay
date: 2020-04-24
labels:
  - Reflection
  - Progress
  - E4 Essay
---
Nearing the end of the semester, I feel like my programming skills have improved compared to when I first started. I still feel like I need to go over a lot of things to ensure that I fully understand majority of the lessons that we did, but it will take more time and practice. Learning about JS was quite overwhelming. There was a lot of things to learn about all the components that go into developing basic JAVASCRIPT programs and I definitely feel that there still is a lot more to learn. I will continue to read up on these module topics and practice them until I am confident enough to do them without any aid.			

Assignment 1 brought together all the topics we learned throughout the semester to develop our own web applications. It was definitely challenging, but I feel like I have a better understanding of the basic requirements to form simple web applications. I enjoyed designing the layout of the website and working with CSS, but struggled a bit with creating a POST on the server and forming a few functions to meet certain requirements for the assignment. More specifically,  I understood how to do data validation on the client-side but struggled on the server side. On another note, there are things that work really well in helping me learn in this class. The labs have greatly helped me understand the different module topics we learned throughout the class and prepared me for the Assignment 1 and I feel like it is very beneficial to have for this class. I appreciate the fact that Professor Port walks through the labs with us an explains thoroughly what each problem wants us to do. It really helps knowing whether I’m going in the right direction or not instead of going into it a little blindly. Sometimes he goes a little of topic to explain how our lessons would apply to how real MIS-related workers use it, which is beneficial insight to give.

Although I do not feel that I am ready to move to the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications on my own), I will continue to practice so that I’m confident enough to get to that point.
